Log base to two E.
Five.
Correct.
So yeah, it is 717 points, 609, six and eight.
If I want to make a ceiling of reading the existing one above, it will be 18 eight and I want to store
to days to the power 18th pairing.
So basically the array should be of size 19 overall like to take an extra.
We can take 19 Advil or just take my next award.
I can do it.
I can take 28.
So it doesn't matter to 19 or 28.
But what I do is I just take plus one.
So I hope you understood this that we can do that.
The the number of pairings for any of the note.
We want to write it in only eight.
So we only wanted to race to the power one to the receive of our to do this about three and so on.
Written is divided into parent nothing more than that.
And now we'll see why we want it.
Right now.
You all know any number can it can be written as a binary number.
It means every number has a binary representation.
It will use that part here.
So let's say I want to find X's of 17th period.
What I'll do is I'll directly say okay, from an index, go to its 16th period, which is not a thing
but x.
You raise the bar for spirit that I I've already stored and calculated how you calculated will I'll
explain that later, but I don't understand the use case of it.
And let's say I approached x dash which was x 16 period.
Now what I want to do is I want to go to it by speed there just to raise to power dude parent.
This X double is basically for x x double that will be its 17th period because seven is an x six plus
one.
Similarly, if I want to find a 10th period for ten, is it another plus two.
What I'll do is I'll go to it's eight period and then I'll go to its second period.
Correct.
So it's prudent and that's second vision.
And we all we all know we all have already stored these values because all these are powers of two.
And if I want to find out, for example, 31st parent, I what I can do is Promax Woodward's 16th period,
let's call it x days.
Then from x days go to it it parent.
Then go to its fourth parent.
Then go to it.
Second parent.
And then go to it.
Let's call it extra bullish and then go to its first period.
Eight and it's called x four.
Well, now you can see from a particular x, I went to six plus eight plus four plus two, 30 plus one.
31st, they took in just one, two, three, four, five in just five steps in this five iterations
I reached its 31st period.
So you can easily see that for any number which is key and case less than two if even greater than equal
to one eight.
In a for any number.
What I can do is I can divide it into it's binary form, right?
And in binary form we can see we have at most log base to win all log base to get.
Phipps.
They always took steps.
I can answer every query.
Correct.
And one along with two steps in this it is nothing but 28.
So for any of the values, the queries will be answered in just friendly steps.
Well, because I'm taking 20 to be the upper limit.
I hope this part is very clear.
Right?
Like what is the use of finding out?
They do it if to keep our eye independent of any trade.
Now let's figure out how to find out to restore the power our youth patent.
I wonder if I know to refer to the power I experience for any node or let's say let's call it to this
to the power git parent for any Iot node.
Let's call it this.
Well.
So if I want to find out.
Okay, so let's start from the base case.
So it's a base case.
What any.
I find it to restore power due to parent which is nothing but FGF i.e. gamma one which is nothing but
its parent.
The parent that I'm passing in the whenever I perform or DFS in the tree I possibly didn't rate the
that is the base case.
Now let's talk about if I go to comma one, which is nothing but f of.
I go to the how can I find note?
For any I want to find out second billing.
So and I recursively do something so that I can easily find out the.
I had its second look and see that its second parent is equal to nothing but its first parents frustrated.
Eight.
So basically what I want to say is this is he goes to F off its first variant, which is i.e. Gamma
one.
Okay.
Yeah.
So it is the here you can see it is.
I go my one but do not get confused.
Straight ahead it means find out eyes to raise to the zeroth parent trait.
In this case, what I do is instead of to this to power zero, let me just place from zero and one over
there.
This will indirectly mean to this above one and into this zero so that we don't get confused.
Eight And now.
Yeah.
So this is nothing but I's liquidated.
It is.
Let's call it Bering Strait.
This is ice for spring.
This is ice.
Second parent that sort of I come to one means because I have over one means are liquidated eyes do
this to the power.
Jeered, spitting.
If I want to find out what is is that kingpin then can I use something recursively?
I can simply say find out who is.
Our tourist is about fourth of what?
Find out who it is the first reading and find out.
It's frustrating because we've already calculated it.
That's how it works.
What I'll be doing is whenever we perform a DFS, we'll be calculating these days to the power G appearing
for all the notes whenever we are coming down.
Eight So we are just calculating from top.
That means for any Nordics, all its ancestors to raise to the power g parent is already filled in.
We are already calculating it and storing it somewhere.
So.
What can I say?
It is parents.
Parent.
Right.
And how how can I not be an independent?
I can simply say it is nothing but f I yeah, it is nothing but f f f off i comma.
Zero zero.
What does it mean?
Let me.
It means nothing.
But what if I go zero?
I've already calculated it.
It is nothing but its parent eight.
So it's parent zero.
That means.
What is zero eight is to this is above the you remember it is if eight.
So it is to receive over zero, which is one.
So I can see f of parent zero, which is nothing but parent of.
Income of one aide to Survivor zero is one that means.
Find me who is the parent of the first parent of the parent?
I think if I want to write something recursively, if I want to find out later, I might to that I will
directly right to this f of f i comma 118 because you need to do power to candidate and they have to
raise about one and two.
This is about one, correct.
What I'll simply say is if I want to find its fourth parent, then we already know what is it?
Second parent order to convert and find notice.
Second parent but any.
Range.
That is it.
Let's see if I have it.
It can be Dennis.
Four plus four.
I already knew what it's for.
Speeding, because I'm calculating that I will just say I know it's fourth period.
And tell me, what was it for?
Speeding.
That will be the current guys interpreting it.
So I'm.
I'm actually using binary lifting, right?
I'm lifting it in binary by dividing it by two rates of what I need is let's see if I want to find out
the current node six parent I take by nodes.
It's been in because I've already found it out because that's that's how I'm calculating it right before
any to restore power date parent I simply say find out two days to do power J minus one to parent and
for that give me.
It's.
J minus one parent.
As simple as that.
Right.
So it might be a little confusing, but let me give you an example.
Let me take that Jane example that we discussed, because from there, it will become a lot clearer.
Yeah.
Let me cool.
So, as I said, I'll be starting from one and I'll keep feeling the values.
Right?
Let's say the values are.
I want to find out what is first
f10f11f12.
It's a these are the values that I want to find out and say f one, three.
Similarly for to what I wanted, I want to find out F2 zero, F2 one, F2 two and F2 three.
It's firstly let's find out these values.
So.
Yeah.
What is that, one zero.
What is the first variant of one?
It is minus one.
We already seen this will pass.
Minus one is debating it.
So I'm afraid nobody here in the DFS and I'm calculating first and then performing their deficit eight.
So what is that one when it is once tourist is about 1 billion which is nothing but already have difficulties
in it because of relation were eliminated.
I come my dear, is nothing but f of f off.
I call my g minus one j minus.
Yeah.
So why does it seem.
One one will be nothing but f off one comma zero, which is minus one.
Okay, let me write it.
F off f of one comma zero zero which is nothing but f of oh.
What is bungoma zero for this current if it is nothing but minus one, we already found it out.
And what is it?
Zero.
Bearing that thing.
Word minus for it.
So whenever we have this minus one thing in the picture, we'll just write minus one over here.
Eight.
Now let's talk about one of two.
This will also be minus one and this will also be minus eight.
Now, what about F2 zero?
That means the first breeding of two, which is nothing but one that we already know.
It's a base case.
And number two, the 421 of 211 is nothing but F of F of two gamma 008, which is F of what is to a
gamma zero.
It is one we will we have already found this out and it's zero three.
So what is that for one comma zero.
It is already over there, which is minus one.
So we can see the second parent of two is minus one because it is two.
Those two races about was related about 1 billion, which is nothing with its second bit.
Similarly, this will be minus one and this will also be minus one.
So similar same thing.
You can fill four, three, four, four, four, four, four, five, eight, eight.
Because for any node.
For any I.
Well, Margie, I need two things.
The first thing is.
F I got my D-minus one that means what is its good is power do minus one feeling that is over here.
Right?
And that will be somewhere above eight.
That will be somewhere above in the ancestry ordered will be minus eight.
So if it is somewhere above in the ancestry or even if it is minus one for that value, what we want,
we want F off D minus one.
And this value will or will already have been calculated because we are performing a DFS from top to
bottom.
Later we start or d if as from the root naught and keep filling the values.
Eight.
Before any of aphasia.
I wonder if if I go to you my concern, which is fear, because we are feeling it.
We will feel that very ah.
If if you don't understand the bottom of approach, then what you can do is you can try the top down
approach, you can call it recursively also, but I'll be filling it with a table because that's not
easy to understand it so soon.
The next part, everyone.
And let's call it.